>> Kyle Simpson: What about Booleans?
Anybody ever done an if statement before
where you just passed in something that
wasn't already a Boolean?
Anybody ever done that before?
You might not have thought,
I'm doing an implicit coercion.
You might have done so well writing a blog
post saying, implicit coercion is bad.
That's implicit coercion.
The if statement requires a Boolean and
if you don't give it a Boolean,
guess what's gonna happen?
It's gonna implicitly coerce it.
Does that mean it's bad?
Absolutely not.
I think this is one of my favorite parts
of JavaScript, that it implicitly coerces
those things to Boolean so
I don't have to worry about that detail.
You know why,
cuz that's not an important detail on that
line of code.
>> Kyle Simpson: What I'm communicating
here, is that if it is truthy,
make this thing happen.
I don't need to clutter up that code by
explicitly coercing it to a boolean so
that I can do an if check.
The implicit system here is helpful
because it hides the unnecessary noise.
I'm a big fan of line 2, but
I don't see how you can be
consistent in your world viewpoint.
To talk bad about implicit coercion,
and then write code like that.
So, string 123, it's truthy, right,
cause it's not on the falsey list, so
we passed the if statement.
The 0 on line six,
is that truthy or falsey?
>> Speaker 2: Falsey.
>> Kyle Simpson: So on the falsely list
was false.
So we're gonna print the, right.
Now, what about line 10?
Line 10 is where things start to
get a little bit strange here.
Cuz it works, we compare 0 to false
with that dreaded double equals.
Which we gonna get lots into I promise.
We compare 0 to false.
And it turns out that the check passes.
So what's going on?
Here's why I said earlier,
I made you write down in your notes,
that the rules for Boolean coercion
only happen if the rules for
Boolean coercion are actually happening.
Remember that whole no op that I said?
Sounded like a Buddhist monk saying
something weird or whatever like,
it only works when it works, right?
Okay, gee, thanks.
Here's what's happening.
When you look at foo == false,
0 == false, I'm willing to bet that most,
if not all of you, think to yourselves,
well, 0 is falsie,
so it's gonna become false and
then I compare to false to false, and
of course, they're the same,
so we pass the check.
But, that's not what happens at all.
As a matter of fact, line 10 only
works because of a happy accident.
I don't like relying upon
happy accidents in my code,
I don't know about you.
>> Kyle Simpson: Line 10 only works
because of a happy accident.
Here's what actually happens.
We're gonna get into double equals in
a minute, but I'll just tell you right now
that what actually happens is that the
double equals prefers to compare numbers.
So what it's actually gonna do
instead of making 0 into false and
comparing the two falses,
it's gonna make false into 0 and
compare the two 0s.
>> Kyle Simpson: Why?
I don't know, probably cuz
number comparison is a lot more
efficient in the internals of the CPU.
>> Kyle Simpson: But
that's the way the algorithm was written,
it prefers to compare numbers.
>> Kyle Simpson: I bet that's another one
of those that you could trip people
up on in an interview question.
Because most people never stop to think,
how does that work?
You just assume that
is a Boolean coercion.
Nope, it's not.
And here it works.
Your assumption works out okay for
you, but it's a happy accident.
On the next screen,
I'm gonna show you something where
that does not work so well, okay?
Line 14.
>> Kyle Simpson: That or operator, that
double pipe that we have there, everybody
recognizes that as the or operator.
The double ampersand being the and
operator.
What do those things do?
Well, those things are often
called logical operators.
That's how they're labeled.
That's how they're labeled in
the official spec in the documentation.
They're called logical operators.
Why do you think they're called that?
Well because, in their original design,
they produced a logical value,
aka true or false.
That was their purpose.
Their purpose was to produce a true or
false.
That is not how these operators work
in JavaScript, or Ruby of Python.
The difference is subtle but
actually pretty important.
The or operator here is not
producing a true or a false,
baz is not going to be true or
false baz is gonna be quote foo.
And whoa, whoa, wait a minute.
The end result is not a logical result,
the end result is that we actually
just picked one of the two operands.
The or operator and the and
operator, these so-called logical
operators actually,
are more like selection operators.
They take two operands, they do a Boolean
coercion test against the first one.
And based upon that end result,
pick one of the two.
They select one of the two operands,
that's what they do.
That's why we have this default value
idiom that we've all probably seen.
Where I can say make baz
equal to either foo or
back up to quote foo as a default if
the variable foo wasn't already set.
Cuz we're gonna do Boolean check against
foo and if it passes, we're gonna use foo.
Otherwise we're gonna to use the thing
on the other side, the other operand.
So this thing is selecting
one of the two operands.
Same thing with the ampersand.
Here we call it the default value idiom.
With the ampersand, I don't know if any
of you have ever seen this before, but
lit JavaScript programmers like to show
off their skills of how clever they are,
and they'll write cb,
ampersand ampersand, cb parenthesis.
Which is a short hand way of saying,
if the call back has been set,
then invoke the callback, why?
Because we're checking
the value of the cb and
it only goes to the second operand if
it passes as true.If it fails as false,
we short circuit out and
don't try to execute it.
So we're showing off our skills, relying
upon not only this implicit coercion
happening, but also, we're relying upon
short circuiting of these operators.
I'm not negative on that,
I think those are great features, but
we have to be honest that
they're implicit features.
How many have you ever written
something like if a or b?
Or if a and b.
And in all of those cases
where those things already
Booleans?
>> Kyle Simpson: See
you're already relying
upon implicit coercion.
Does that create an identity crisis for
you that you should go back and
fix all your code and put in all those
double negates all over the place?
I would argue this is a place where
the implicit coercion is helping
the readability of your code.
Everybody following that reasoning?
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's where the double
equal stuff starts to get crazy for us,
because here we have the string 123.
Now, the string 123, we've already
established that it's truthy, right?
So when I double equal it to true and
that fails,
my whole world starts to fall apart.
How can something be truthy but
not double equal to true?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well, it's
cuz the double equal isn't doing a Boolean
coercion at all, just like I said before.
The double equals prefers
to compare numbers.
So, if I give it a string and
a Boolean, guess what's gonna happen?
Both of them are gonna
get coerced to numbers.
The string is gonna coerce
to the number 1,2,3,
the true is gonna coerce to the number 1.
And the number 1,2,3 and number 1
are most definitely not equal to each
other.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now you may be
thinking at this point, I promise we're
getting to double equals in a minute, but
you may be thinking at this point, well,
geez this double equals just
seems hopelessly complicated.
I'm never gonna be able to fully
understand this double equals thing.
Not true,
it's actually a very simple algorithm.
Here's the one key takeaway,
we'll come back to this.
If you just know that double
equals prefers to compare numbers,
most of the behavior simplifies itself.
That's just something
nobody's taught me before.
Double equals to prefers
to compare numbers.
Just that one fact eliminates most of
the confusion of the double equals, okay?
We'll get into more of that.
So here it's not doing a Boolean coercion.
So let me give you a takeaway.
You're looking for, I don't wanna talk
about abstract, give me practical stuff.
Here's a takeaway,
don't ever under any circumstances, and
I don't very often use absolutes,
but this is one of them.
Don't ever under any circumstances,
compare with double equals true or
double equals false, just never,
ever, ever, ever, ever do it.
Because, most likely,
it's only gonna work as a happy accident.
And in the worst case,
it's gonna confuse people and create bugs.
Just don't do it.
We’ve already talked about
multiple other ways, for
you to either let it do the implicit
coercion for you, or be explicit about it,
but don’t rely upon double equals to true,
or double equals to false,
cuz they aren’t gonna do what
you’re expecting them to do.
And more importantly, they’re not gonna do
it, what the future reader of your code is
expecting it do do.
>> Kyle Simpson: Same
thing down on line 7.
We've got an array.
We know the array, even though
it's an empty array, it's truthy.
Why is it truthy?
It's not on the falsey list, right?
Even though an empty array
seems like it ought to be.
It's not on the falsy list so
it's gotta be truthy.
So we do an if test for it and
sure enough it passes as true.
So we've established that it's truthy but
on line 10 we double equal it to false,
and that also passes.
How can something be both truthy and
double equal to false?
Or maybe it's cuz the double equals
doesn't do a Boolean coersion.
Maybe it's cuz that double equals is
gonna try to do a numeric coersion.
So we're gonna take the empty array,
remember primitives need to be,
I mean non-primitives need
to become primitives.
So what is the two primitive of
an empty array gonna produce?
>> Speaker 3: String 0.
>> Kyle Simpson: An empty string.
First, we're get there right?
You're right,
we're gonna produce an empty string.
So now what we really have is empty
string double equal to false.
Now we still prefer numbers, right?
So we're gonna turn the empty
string into a number,
which one does that become?
>> Speaker 3: 0.
>> Kyle Simpson: 0, we're gonna turn false
into a number which one does that become?
>> Speaker 3: 0.
>> Kyle Simpson: So now we have these
zeros.
There's our root,
root of all evil again, all right?
I told you we'd be coming
back to that over and over.
The gateway drug here is the double
equals comparison with a Boolean.
Just don't do it.